\subsection*{The Order Above Chaos}

The \emph{Order Above Chaos} or simply the \emph{Order} is a true deity, that
represents order and justice, regardless of prevailing law. It is seen as the
\emph{higher order of all things} intrinsic and true to all societies. The
fundamental laws and rules that govern all species, from which no one can
escape, and that which thrones above everyone and everything, even kings.

\subsubsection*{Personification}

The Order is often depicted as a council of hooded humanoid creatures engaged
in a debate or council. More often than not the Order is not personified at
all, and instead represented by a dagger pointing downward to form a cross.

\subsubsection*{Prevailing Dogma}

The \emph{Order Above Chaos} has two major churches and dogmas: The
\emph{Third Order} on one hand, and the \emph{Holy Order of Aleaste}. Both
follow the basic tenets of the Order Above Chaos, but differ substantially in
the amount they are allowed to interfere.

\subsubsection*{Third Order}

The oldest among the churches of the \emph{Order}, the \emph{Inquisition of
  the Third Order} or simply referred to as the ``Inquisition'' or the
``Third Order'' was founded in in \emph{GT:2810}. It is a knight order that
enacts justice, law and order all over the world. Their knights, paladins and
priests (often called simply called ``inquisitors'') punish the wicked, destroy
evil creatures and charge criminals, and those perceived of wrong doing
regardless on whether the local law makes the perceived wrong doing legal.

Highly unpopular within most city kingdoms, the inquisitors of the Third Order
enact their justice without the aid of the local law enforcement agency, and
often punish people whose actions are made legal by the law. Although the
inquisition is known to side with those that are treated unfairly, their
popularity and support among the general population is limited. Many see it
as a bad omen or a sign of trouble when the Inquisition appears to render
justice. However they are often called to deal with supernatural evil threats,
such as the undead, devils or daemons; as the Third Order has a long standing
history, tradition, knowledge and equipment to handle such threats as they
arise in Aror.

\subsubsection*{Holy Order of Aleaste}

In \emph{MI:890} the high inquisitor of the Third Order, an dark elven woman
named Aleaste of House Eseriel, faced a crisis within the church as many
larger city kingdoms rejected the inquisitors and their justice; often barring
them entry to the land or arresting them outright. As an answer she resigned,
and split the church in two, founding the \emph{Holy Order of Aleaste}.

The Holy Order, instead of sending inquisitors throughout the lands, offers
their knowledge, highly educated and experienced judges and prosecutors to
large kingdoms and baronies as advisers. These clerics and priests then aid
and advise the ruling monarchs on new laws, building a fair justice system and
on how to enforce these new laws in a just manner.

Although tainted by the bad reputation of the Third Order, the Holy Order
gained a lot of influence over the centuries. Especially in smaller baronies
that are plagued with chaos, the highly educated advisers and judges are
welcomed to restore order. Thus many of these smaller baronies and earldoms
rely on the Holy Order to provide a framework for laws and security.

\subsubsection*{Rivalry with Lor}

The followers of the Order are in direct conflict with the followers of the
lesser deity of \emph{Lor}. Their argument is that the entity known as
\emph{Lor} represents chaos disguised as a just crusade, and does nothing to
maintain the order of things in the long term. In return the followers of
\emph{Lor} accuse the followers of the Order to indulge in vengeance instead
of seeking true and fair justice.

\begin{35e}
  The \emph{Order Above Chaos} is considered Lawful Neutral, and their favoured
  weapon is the dagger.
\end{35e}
